# INFO_6205  Programming Structure & Algorithms

- Instructor: Prof. Robin Hillyard, Boston

- Instruction:
	 In almost every aspect of programming, you will find an understanding of data structures, their accompanying algorithms, the invariants that bind them together and, of course, order of complexity, to be essential. We cover such basic structures as bags, sets, lists, stacks, queues, priority queues, trees, symbol tables (including hash maps), and graphs. Significant emphasis is placed on algorithms for sorting and searching as these expend considerable resources in many applications. The course emphasizes the importance of reduction in the domain of problem-solving and, from this, we derive a number of standard problem-solving techniques: brute force, divide-and-conquer, space/time tradeoffs, dynamic programming. We also briefly cover data compression, greedy algorithms, iterative improvement, non-deterministic and other algorithms. Underpinning this whole subject, we also cover the fundamental concepts of (Shannon) entropy and complexity, as well as theoretical and experimental measurements of performance. The course will also illustrate the various design techniques with problems in graph theory, especially as it applies to social networking paradigms. 

	 Data structures and algorithms are two facets of one fundamental technique of programming. It is impossible to have one without the other. The class will be detail-oriented—at least for the major structures/algorithms—and will provide an essential component for anyone contemplating a career as a software developer. Although the subject could be studied using almost any language, the language of this class is Java. We will be using some aspects of Java 8 so you should try to familiarize yourself with the functional aspects of Java. Since 5100 is a prerequisite, you are assumed to have a good grasp of programming in Java. If this is not the case, then you will need to do some significant brush-up before class begins. 